.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GLIB\-COMPILE\-SCHEMAS" "1" "08/28/2012" "User Commands" "User Commands"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
glib\-compile\-schemas \- GSettings schema compiler
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 21
\fBglib\-compile\-schemas\fR [option...] {directory}
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBglib\-compile\-schemas\fR
compiles all the GSettings XML schema files in
\fIdirectory\fR
into a binary file with the name
\fIgschemas.compiled\fR
that can be used by
\fBGSettings\fR. The XML schema files must have the filename extension
\fI.gschema.xml\fR. For a detailed description of the XML file format, see the
\fBGSettings\fR
documentation.
.PP
At runtime, GSettings looks for schemas in the
\fIglib\-2.0/schemas\fR
subdirectories of all directories specified in the
\fBXDG_DATA_DIRS\fR
environment variable. The usual location to install schema files is
\fI/usr/share/glib\-2.0/schemas\fR.
.PP
In addition to schema files, glib\-compile\-schemas reads 'vendor override' files, which are key files that can override default values for keys in the schemas. The group names in the key files are the schema id, and the values are written in serialized GVariant form. Vendor override files must have the filename extension
\fI.gschema.override\fR.
.PP
By convention, vendor override files begin with
\fInn_\fR
where
\fInn\fR
is a number from 00 to 99. Higher numbered files have higher priority (eg: if the same override is made in a file numbered 10 and then again in a file numbered 20, the override from 20 will take precedence).
.SS "Options"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-targetdir=\fR\fB\fITARGETDIR\fR\fR
Store
\fIgschemas.compiled\fR
in
\fITARGETDIR\fR
instead of
\fIdirectory\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Don't write
\fIgschemas.compiled\fR. This option can be used to check
\fI.gschema.xml\fR
sources for errors.
.TP
\fB\-\-allow\-any\-name\fR
Do not enforce restrictions on key names. Note that this option is purely to facility the transition from GConf, and will be removed at some time in the future.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
