.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "GSETTINGS" "1" "08/28/2012" "User Commands" "User Commands"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
gsettings \- GSettings configuration tool
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR get \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR]  \fIKEY\fR
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR monitor \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR]  [\fIKEY\fR]
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR writable \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR]  \fIKEY\fR
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR range \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR]  \fIKEY\fR
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR set \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR]  \fIKEY\fR \fIVALUE\fR
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR reset \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR]  \fIKEY\fR
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR reset\-recursively \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR] 
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR list\-schemas
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR list\-relocatable\-schemas
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR list\-keys \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR] 
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR list\-children \fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR] 
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR list\-recursively [\fISCHEMA\fR\ [:\fIPATH\fR]]
.HP 10
\fBgsettings\fR help [\fICOMMAND\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\fBgsettings\fR
offers a simple commandline interface to
\fBGSettings\fR. It lets you get, set or monitor an individual key for changes.
.PP
The
\fISCHEMA\fR
and
\fIKEY\fR
arguments are required for most commands to specify the schema id and the name of the key to operate on. The schema id may optionally have a :\fIPATH\fR
suffix. Specifying the path is only needed if the schema does not have a fixed path.
.PP
When setting a key, you also need specify a
\fIVALUE\fR
The format for the value is that of a serialized
\fBGVariant\fR, so e.g. a string must include explicit quotes: "'foo'". This format is also used when printing out values.
.SS "Commands"
.TP
\fBget\fR
Gets the value of
\fIKEY\fR. The value is printed out as a serialised
\fBGVariant\fR.
.TP
\fBmonitor\fR
Monitors
\fIKEY\fR
for changes and prints the changed values. If no
\fIKEY\fR
is specified, all keys in the schema are monitored. Monitoring will continue until the process is terminated.
.TP
\fBwritable\fR
Finds out whether
\fIKEY\fR
is writable.
.TP
\fBrange\fR
Queries the range of valid values for
\fIKEY\fR.
.TP
\fBset\fR
Sets the value of
\fIKEY\fR
to
\fIVALUE\fR. The value is specified as a serialised
\fBGVariant\fR.
.TP
\fBreset\fR
Resets
\fIKEY\fR
to its default value.
.TP
\fBreset\-recursively\fR
Reset all keys under the given
\fISCHEMA\fR.
.TP
\fBlist\-schemas\fR
Lists the installed, non\-relocatable schemas. See
\fBlist\-relocatable\-schemas\fR
if you are interested in relocatable schemas.
.TP
\fBlist\-relocatable\-schemas\fR
Lists the installed, relocatable schemas. See
\fBlist\-schemas\fR
if you are interested in non\-relocatable schemas.
.TP
\fBlist\-keys\fR
Lists the keys in
\fISCHEMA\fR.
.TP
\fBlist\-children\fR
Lists the children of
\fISCHEMA\fR.
.TP
\fBlist\-recursively\fR
Lists keys and values, recursively. If no
\fISCHEMA\fR
is given, list keys in all schemas.
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Prints help and exits.
